Multi-Machine Launching (#255)
ros2/design: articles/152_roslaunch_multi_machine_launch.md

---
layout: default
title: ROS 2 Multi-Machine Launching
permalink: articles/roslaunch_mml.html
abstract:
  Robotic systems are often distributed across multiple networked machines.
  This document describes proposed modifications and enhancements to ROS2's
  launch system to facilitate launching, monitoring, and shutting
  down systems spread across multiple machines.
author: '[Matt Lanting](https://github.com/mlanting)'
published: false
---

- This will become a table of contents (this text will be scraped).
{:toc}

# {{ page.title }}

<div class="abstract" markdown="1">
{{ page.abstract }}
</div>

Authors: {{ page.author }}

> ## Purpose

Reviewer: See my comment on the outline.

Allow a system of ROS nodes to be launched on a hardware architecture that is
spread across multiple networked computers and facilitate introspection and

> management of the system from a single machine.

Reviewer 2: Please use one sentence per line according to our MD style:

https://index.ros.org/doc/ros2/Contributing/Developer-Guide/#markdown-restructured-text-docblocks

## Justification

> Nodes can need to run on different hosts for a variety of reasons.  Some possible

Reviewer 3: @mlanting `can need`? would `may need` sound better?

Reviewer 4: "May need" sounds better to me

> use cases:

Reviewer 3: @mlanting nit: 
```suggestion
use cases are: 
```

Reviewer 2: Or "Some possible use cases include:".

Reviewer 4: Will is right, "include" sounds better.

> - A large robot could with hosts located physically near the hardware they are

Reviewer 3: @mlanting hmm, not sure what you mean here.

Reviewer 5: For example, on a vehicle that has many different types of sensors (cameras, lidars, radars, etc.), you may want to have a separate computer for processing the data from each one of those sets of sensors, and in order to simplify cable routing and network design, you may want to have those computers physically positioned next to them.

Alternately, depending on the chassis of your vehicle, you could have limitations on where it's actually possible to place computers, and so they could be scattered around by necessity.

Reviewer 2: I also don't understand, seems like a typo or something as "could with hosts" doesn't parse for me...

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- A large robot could require hosts located physically near the hardware they are
```
@wjwwood Is this sufficient to make the explanation clearer? We could go further by describing the physical layout more, possibly talk about doing edge processing for sensors when you have a robot that's more than a few meters in overall size.

Reviewer 4: If you guys are going for a specifically multi-robot/multi-agent approach, we should probably adopt language that suits the field.

```suggestion
- A robot could request from neighboring static or dynamic agents control of their hardware, such as cameras, sensors, etc.
```

controlling such as cameras or other sensors
- A robot with hosts with different architectures in order to use specialized
processing hardware
- A robot with a cluster of machines that do distributed processing of data
- A network of multiple virtual hosts for testing purposes

> - A swarm of independent drones that can cooperate but do not require

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- A swarm of cooperative, independent agents that do not require intercommunication
```

Reviewer 7: Why limit to a swarm and not a team of more than 1 agent?

How is agent intercommunication relevant to multi-machine launching? And why limit to systems without it?

Why not just: Cooperative Multi-Agent Systems?

Reviewer 4: It's just a specific use case example. I don't think it was meant in an all-encompassing manner for multi-machine launching.

> communication with each other

Reviewer 4: I suggest removing this line
```suggestion
```

- A client computer is used to launch and monitor a system on a remote host but
is not required for the system to operate

## Capabilities

In order to meet the above use cases, a launch system needs to have a number of
capabilities, including:

- Connecting to a remote host and running nodes on it
- Pushing configuration parameters for nodes to remote hosts

> - Monitoring the status and tracking the lifecycle of nodes

Reviewer 8: what is exactly the difference from lifecycle command?

> - Recovering from failures by optionally restarting nodes

Reviewer 2: These two (tracking lifecycle and recovering from failures) are not special for distributed launching, imo. They have to be done in a single launch file as well some times.

- Gracefully shutting down nodes on every host

Most of these are just extensions of the design goals for the single-machine
version of roslaunch for ROS2, but in addition to extending those goals to
remote machines, we would also like to consider a few more advanced features,
including:

- Load balancing nodes on distributed networks
- Command line tools for managing and monitoring systems across machines
- Mechanisms for locating files and executables across machines

> - Sharing and synchronizing files across machines

Reviewer 2: I'm curious about the motivation of these features here.

I think things should only be included in the design document in one of two cases:

- it's a feature that has a concrete/existing use case (e.g. feature we had in ROS 1 and want to emulate)
- it's a feature we might want in the future, but needs to be considered now so that it's possible to add it later
  - i.e. trying to avoid designing ourselves into a box where adding the new feature would require major redesigning of the system

It's not clear to me that each of those meet that standard, but if they do then I think they need to be separately motivated.

Reviewer 4: I see what you mean. Some of these such as `Command line tools for managing and monitoring systems across machines` is probably best suited by a community package than one provided by ros2.

Additionally, what is mean by "load balancing" in this case?

Reviewer 8: in my opinion, i believe

- Mechanisms for locating files and executables across machines
- Sharing and synchronizing files across machines

these are totally off tipic from launch system, why this is integrated into launcher? could we think about these features more generic if necessary?

Reviewer 5: I don't think I would say they're "totally off topic"; synchronizing a built workspace between machines is something I've had to deal with constantly when launch on multi-machine systems, and I've spent a considerably amount of time writing scripts to handle efficiently deploying large workspaces (I've got one that's 5.3 GB right now) across multiple ROS hosts.

But it is true that the concept of synchronizing files isn't tightly coupled to launching; there are people who will be interested in multi-machine launching but don't need to sync anything, and there are probably others who will want to sync data but aren't launching anything, so it might make more sense to break that out into its own system.

Reviewer 4: Well, I think we need to consider what constitutes things for multi-machine launching vs. tools for multi-machine ros2 setups. Our best bet might be to consolidate the features that would help multi-machine launching in the `launch` command within this guide and then think about maybe a suite of packages containing features helpful to multi-machine setups.

Reviewer 2: In ROS 1, files were looked up via something like "find file X in package Y", and in multi machine launching it was required that packages and files existed in both machines (maybe not in the same place, but they had to be discoverable).

That seemed to work ok, though obviously there are situations, especially in development, where this isn't ideal. However, I do think we'd do well to keep the tools "small and sharp" and deal with this problem outside of launch. If there appears to be a really good default way to solve this problem, then we can consider adding tool support.

However, I'd encourage you guys to get it working with the assumption that all the packages existing on the local and remote machines (or in the "remote" containers), and then we can workout mechanisms for synchronization or container setup as needed.

## Considerations

There are some outstanding issues that may complicate things:

- How to group nodes/participants/processes is somewhat of an open issue with potential
   implications for this part of ROS2.
    - https://github.com/ros2/design/pull/250/files/8ccaac3d60d7a0ded50934ba6416550f8d2af332?short_path=dd776c0#diff-dd776c070ecf252bc4dcc4b86a97c888
    - The number of domain participants is limited per vendor (Connext is 120 per domain).
- No `rosmaster` means there is no central mechanism for controlling modes or
  distributing parameters
- Machines may be running different operating systems
- If we intend to do any kind of load balancing, certain types of resources may
    need to be transferred to other machines.
     - Calibration data, map files, training data, etc.
     - Need to keep track of which machine has the most recent version of such

>         resources

Reviewer 2: This seems out of scope for the launch system (in my opinion), I'd need to see a strong reason why this needs to be integrated into the launch system rather than built on top of it. It may, however, be a motivation for the distributed launch feature being designed one way or the other, but I don't think we should get bogged down in the details of this complicated and domain specific functionality (load balancing).

> - Security: we'll need to manage credentials across numerous machines both for SSH

Reviewer 3: @mlanting nit: 
```suggestion
- Security credentials will have to be managed across numerous machines both for SSH
```

> - Security: we'll need to manage credentials across numerous machines both for SSH

Reviewer 2: Seems like an assumption that SSH will be used for sure. Perhaps we shouldn't jump to conclusions. For example, this would not be a complete solution for Windows (despite recent progress in getting openssh on Windows, it's still not there yet imo).

    and secure DDS.

## Proposed Multi-Machine Launch Command Line Interface

> The multi-machine launching interface is controlled through the `launcher`

Reviewer 3: @mlanting meta: I wonder if `launcher` is the right naming, as opposed to `host`, `machine` or even `system`.

Reviewer 5: It was the best thing I could think of at the time -- I am also not a big fan of it and an open to suggestions. :-)

I think it would make sense to provide the same interface for both single-machine and multi-machine launching and also make it obvious from the verb what the command does.  `system` might work for that.

Author: `launcher` is just a new command we decided to propose since the existing `launch` command doesn't have any verbs. Running something like `ros2 launcher launch` would do the same thing as `ros2 launch`, either by calling the existing launch, or replacing it (in which case `ros2 launch` could just be an alias).

This is basically just a workaround for the fact that the existing launch command doesn't have verbs and we weren't sure it'd be a good idea to try to introduce verbs to a verbless command.

> The multi-machine launching interface is controlled through the `launcher`

Reviewer: What's the reason behind adding a whole new verb as opposed to extending the previous launch command? (Again, see my comments for proposed alternatives.

Reviewer 5: If possible, I think it'd be good to do this in a way that doesn't break backwards-compatibility, so just running `ros2 launch pkg launch_file` should behave the same way as it always has.  On the other hand, none of the current `ros2` verbs currently can *both* execute a command and have subcommands, so to do so here would be breaking with existing conventions.

The thought here is that the cleanest way to preserve backwards compatibility and preserve conventions is to add a new command that provides all of the necessary subcommands and have one of those subcommands provide the same functionality as the original `ros2 launch`.  Do you think that either replacing the current `launch` command or having one command that both performs an action and has sub-commands would be preferable?

Reviewer 9: Docker has done something similar, like where `docker images` was extended to `docker image list`, or `docker ps` vs `docker container list`. So we could nest the original verb into the new syntax, while keeping the old syntax. Though I'm a fan of reworking the launch verb as its already singlar. Perhaps `ros2 launch` -> `ros2 launch start|stop|restart <pkg> <file>`?

Reviewer 5: Actually a little more:
> Wouldn't it be better to extend ros2launch with the ability to read a list package_name/launch_files and pass the attach/detach args is needed:
> $ ros2 launch [package_name [launch_file_name] [launch_arguments]]

You may need more information than just a package and launch file name  `attach` / `term` a launched system; in fact, that will definitely not be enough if it is possible to run the same launch file more than once on a network.  For example, imagine you've got a lab of developers, all of whom are on the same network and are independently launching/terminating nodes and don't want to mess up anybody else.

In fact, not needing to know the package/launch file could be a desirable feature; you might want to be able to launch a system from one machine but stop it from a different one.

Actually, it looks like it didn't make it into the revision of this file that got pushed here, but here's an example of some more verbose output from `list -v` that could be useful for introspecting running systems:

```bash
$ ros2 launcher list -v
ab1e0138-bb22-4ec9-a590-cf377de42d0f: 5 nodes, 2 hosts
    Launch host: 192.168.10.5
    Launch time: Fri Sep 13 15:39:45 CDT 2019
    Launch command: ros2 launcher launch package_foo bar.launch.py argument:=value
4c9dc7d1-e6c4-49cd-bc3d-c8aa2d5a95e0: 5 nodes, 2 hosts
    Launch host: 192.168.10.5
    Launch time: Fri Sep 13 16:39:45 CDT 2019
    Launch command: ros2 launcher launch package_foo bar.launch.py argument:=value
50bda6fb-d451-4d53-8a2b-e8fcdce8170b: 2 nodes, 1 host
    Launch host: 192.168.10.15
    Launch time: Fri Sep 13 12:39:45 CDT 2019
    Launch command: ros2 launcher launch demo_nodes_cpp talker_listener.launch.py
5d186778-1f50-4828-9425-64cc2ed1342c: 16 nodes, 3 hosts
    Launch host: 192.168.10.13
    Launch time: Fri Sep 12 10:39:45 CDT 2019
    Launch command: ros2 launcher launch package_foo bar2.launch.py
$
```

Author: We added a new command because the existing launch command didn't have any verbs and there wasn't really any precedent for commands with verbs that also work with no verbs.

Reviewer 2: Why do you need a command to start/stop/restart launched things? Can we not just keep `ros2 launch` blocking as it is, and you simply ctrl-c the original command when you want to stop it?

If you want to list existing launch services, then we can add that as a `ros2 launch --list-launch-services` kind of thing. If you absolutely need to asynchronously interact with an already running launch service then the command name that would make more sense to me is `ros2 launchctrl`...

By the way, the architecture of the launch system is not at all clear at this point in the article, how many processes are there, how are things executed on remote machines, is it a blocking process or a daemon?

Without context on the architecture, this section about the command line tools doesn't make sense and is completely unmotivated. It just comes off as a bit arbitrary. I designed launch originally, and have discussed this feature with people extensively and even I couldn't really guess at why the tools were proposed like this. Don't take this as negative criticism, it's fine we'll iterate on it, but my point is that you need a lot more supporting rationale before you jump into how the command line tools will work.

Reviewer 2: For example, why do I need to attach/detach? Just because docker has it? Do we really need that feature?

Reviewer 5: The thought behind this is that since ROS2 has no rosmaster and can operate in a decentralized fashion, it makes sense for a multi-machine launch system to match that paradigm rather than having a central process around which everything can fail.

This is actually a minor annoyance I've dealt with a lot in ROS1.  Let's say your robot is a vehicle that has multiple headless computers, you have a laptop that you use for interacting with the vehicle but does not have any critical software running on it, and you want to launch a ROS system across all of them.  Your options are:
- `roslaunch` everything from your laptop, which creates an unnecessarily single point of failure that can bring everything down
- `ssh` into a computer on the vehicle, start a terminal manager like `screen` or `tmux`, `roslaunch` everything, then detach and log out; when you want to stop everything, you then have to log in, attach, kill it, then log out again

The first case can unexpectedly cause big problems, such as one time that we had a demo running on a vehicle and a bump in the road caused the laptop to close, go to sleep, and then the whole system died.  The second case is less problematic but adds several repetitive steps.  You can abstract away the process by writing services and scripts to automate everything, but to me that feels like something the launch system should be able to do.

In addition, ROS2's decentralized design means it's possible to have machines that lose and regain connectivity to each other and continue functioning.  This can happen accidentally as a result of network failures, but it could also be intentional in the case of a swarm of drones that move out of and back into range of each other.  If the launch paradigm is to have a central launch process that shuts everything down when it's interrupted, how do you handle shutting down hosts that you've temporarily lost connection to?  After they've reconnected to the network, is there even a way to do so?

Designing the launch system in this way addresses those problems; you can:
- Launch a ROS2 system from a machine that is not a critical part of the system
- Monitor or stop groups of nodes that were started on a different machine than the current one
- Monitor or stop nodes that disconnected from the network they were launched from

Reviewer 5: For what it's worth, we have some ideas and plans for the actual launch architecture but are still pretty early in the design process; the desire behind designing the user interface first is to figure out what features we want and how people want to interact with it and then build an architecture that is capable of that rather than creating a system first and then trying to figure out how to control it in an intuitive way.

As mentioned in another comment, the desire behind creating a new command (and I like `launchctrl` better than `launcher`) was to preserve compatibility with the existing `launch` command while also not breaking the current paradigm of commands that perform a single action not also having sub-commands.  If you don't have any problem with adding sub-commands to `launch` or with tweaking `launch`'s arguments so that is is capable of other actions, I also think that's preferable.

Reviewer: Thanks for the explanation. 
I think all of this is important to outline in the design doc as it provides a lot of necessary context and justification as to why one should go about implementing this new feature.
I agree that leveraging the decentralized paradigm of ROS2 to launch processes on various systems and monitor them from other systems is useful.

To move forward, I'd suggest having very specific, actionable items of what this proposition will and *will not* achieve as well as justification as to why previous commands/features don't achieve what your proposing (As you outlined to wjwwood).

Edit:
Just wanted to say this is hilarious and sorry it happened :laughing: (I know the pain...)
> The first case can unexpectedly cause big problems, such as one time that we had a demo running on a vehicle and a bump in the road caused the laptop to close, go to sleep, and then the whole system died.

Reviewer 9: > as to why previous commands/features don't achieve what your proposing

I would also like to see some arguments on why existing orchestration tools just sitting on top of ROS2 launch already would not be as suitable, and to what extent we should implement distributed host process management into roslaunch itself. The unix side of me isn't sure if ROS is self would be the best place to add this kind of infrastructure management. There's a lot more to distributed process management for robots that roslaunch, such and rotating logs, key exchange/enrolment, port mapping, health monitoring, etc. For example, I don't even think using SSH is still appropriate for managing swarms of robots, given how eazy ssh pipes break over spotty wifi connections; even something more robust like most isn't well purposed for programmatic process management.

However, It might be neat to use ROS as the transport for other orchestration tools, eg. where kubernetes or nomad could send client/server exchanges over DDS; though I'm not sure if the'd operate under anything but a reliable transport.

Reviewer 4: [mosh](https://mosh.org/) might be a better because it was made for intermittent connectivity.

For the attach/detach feature, couldn't you just extend the `ros2 node ...` command to include an attach/detach action (i.e. `ros2 node attach name-of-node`)?

command for the `ros2` command-line tool.  The existing `launch` command
provides a subset of this functionality that is sufficient for single-machine
launching.

### Commands

```bash
$ ros2 launcher
usage: ros2 launcher [-h] Call `ros2 launcher <command> -h` for more detailed usage. ...

Various launching related sub-commands

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit

Commands:
  launch       Run a launch file
  list         Search for and list running launch systems
  attach       Attach to a running launch system and wait for it to finish
  term         Terminate a running launch system

  Call `ros2 launcher <command> -h` for more detailed usage.
```

#### `launch`

The `ros2 launcher launch` is equivalent to `ros2 launch`, which is preserved

> for backwards compatibility and ease of use.  It is used to run a launch file.

Reviewer 2: It's been stated above, but just to drive it home here where it's clearer, why not just `ros2 launch`?

What is the technical justification for needing a new sub-verb inside a new verb if they behave the same?

```bash
$ ros2 launcher launch -h
usage: ros2 launcher launch [-h] [-d] [-D] [-p | -s] [-a]
                            package_name [launch_file_name]
                            [launch_arguments [launch_arguments ...]] ...

Run a launch file

positional arguments:
  package_name          Name of the ROS package which contains the launch file
  launch_file_name      Name of the launch file
  launch_arguments      Arguments to the launch file; '<name>:=<value>' (for
                        duplicates, last one wins)
  argv                  Pass arbitrary arguments to the launch file

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            Show this help message and exit.
  -d, --debug           Put the launch system in debug mode, provides more
                        verbose output.

>   -D, --detach          Detach from the launch process after it has started.

Reviewer 8: we would use if launch process kills itself after launch. after the launch just to leave everything else. for embedded platform, we might not need launch process, but we likely to use launch description to init the system.

[INFO] [talker-1]: process started with pid [2809]
[INFO] [listener-2]: process started with pid [2810]
[talker-1] [INFO] [talker]: Publishing: 'Hello World: 1'
[listener-2] [INFO] [listener]: I heard: [Hello World: 1]
[talker-1] [INFO] [talker]: Publishing: 'Hello World: 2'
[listener-2] [INFO] [listener]: I heard: [Hello World: 2]
[talker-1] [INFO] [talker]: Publishing: 'Hello World: 3'
[listener-2] [INFO] [listener]: I heard: [Hello World: 3]
[talker-1] [INFO] [talker]: Publishing: 'Hello World: 4'
[listener-2] [INFO] [listener]: I heard: [Hello World: 4]
^C[WARNING] [launch]: user interrupted with ctrl-c (SIGINT)
[listener-2] [INFO] [rclcpp]: signal_handler(signal_value=2)
[INFO] [talker-1]: process has finished cleanly [pid 2809]
[INFO] [listener-2]: process has finished cleanly [pid 2810]
[talker-1] [INFO] [rclcpp]: signal_handler(signal_value=2)
```

Note how there is one difference from the old behavior of `ros2 launch`; the
group of nodes is assigned a Launch System ID.  This is a unique identifier
that can be used to track all of the nodes launched by a particular command
across a network.

Additionally, it is possible to detach from a system and let it run in the

> background:

Reviewer 2: Why is this just a feature of the `ros2 launcher launch` version of this? Why is it needed at all and why can it not be done for `ros2 launch` as well? Put another way, what is it about multi machine launch that requires this ability?

[INFO] [launch]: All log files can be found below /home/preed/.ros/log/2019-09-11-20-54-30-715383-regulus-2799
[INFO] [launch]: Default logging verbosity is set to INFO
[INFO] [launch]: Launch System ID is 50bda6fb-d451-4d53-8a2b-e8fcdce8170b
$
```

#### `list`

Since it is possible to launch a system of nodes that spans a network and detach
from it, it is necessary to be able to query the network to find which systems
are active.

```bash
$ ros2 launcher list -h
usage: ros2 launcher list [-h] [-v] [--spin-time SPIN_TIME]

List running launch systems

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            Show this help message and exit.
  -v, --verbose         Provides more verbose output.
  --spin-time SPIN_TIME
                        Spin time in seconds to wait for discovery (only
                        applies when not using an already running daemon)
```

Example output:

```bash
$ ros2 launcher list
ab1e0138-bb22-4ec9-a590-cf377de42d0f
50bda6fb-d451-4d53-8a2b-e8fcdce8170b
5d186778-1f50-4828-9425-64cc2ed1342c
$
```

```bash
$ ros2 launcher list
ab1e0138-bb22-4ec9-a590-cf377de42d0f: 5 nodes, 2 hosts
50bda6fb-d451-4d53-8a2b-e8fcdce8170b: 2 nodes, 1 host

> 5d186778-1f50-4828-9425-64cc2ed1342c: 16 nodes, 3 hosts

Reviewer 3: @mlanting does each launch file provide enough information to dispatch each node to the right host? If so, how does this cope with a single-machine launch to be launched in multiple hosts, unaware of each other? If not, how are nodes or even "systems" as you propose here associated with each host?

Reviewer 5: This is just a theoretical design of how we would expect the CLI to look like, so there isn't a definite answer for those questions (yet).  I expect that the launch files will, similar to ROS1's launch files, contain information about all of the hosts involved and which nodes should be launched on which host.

> If so, how does this cope with a single-machine launch to be launched in multiple hosts, unaware of each other?

I'm not sure what this means, do you have an example?

Author: My thought was that nodes which need to run on a certain machine can have that machine specified in the launch file, and those that do not have a machine specified would be sent to a host selected by the launch system (to allow for things like load balancing). The launch system would be informed of hosts by something like a "declare_launch_hosts_action"

                     a full UUID is specified, it will attach to the first
                     Launch System it finds whose ID begins with that sub-string

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            Show this help message and exit.
  -v, --verbose         Provides more verbose output.
  --spin-time SPIN_TIME
                        Spin time in seconds to wait for discovery (only
                        applies when not using an already running daemon)
```

Example output:

```bash
$ ros2 launcher attach 50bda6fb-d451-4d53-8a2b-e8fcdce8170b
Attached to Launch System 50bda6fb-d451-4d53-8a2b-e8fcdce8170b.
(... in another terminal, run `ros2 launcher term 50bda6fb`...)
All nodes in Launch System 50bda6fb-d451-4d53-8a2b-e8fcdce8170b have exited.
$
```

Verbose mode:

```bash
$ ros2 launcher attach -v 50bda6fb
Attached to Launch System 50bda6fb-d451-4d53-8a2b-e8fcdce8170b.
Waiting for node /launch_ros
Waiting for node /talker
Waiting for node /listener
(... in another terminal, run `ros2 launcher term 50bda6fb`...)
Node /launch_ros has exited
Node /talker has exited
Node /listener has exited
All nodes in Launch System 50bda6fb-d451-4d53-8a2b-e8fcdce8170b have exited.
$
```

> #### `term`

Reviewer: These features all seem like extensions that can extend the current `ros2run` and `ros2launch` CLI.
They are also something I would like to see in ROS2 as well :)

Reviewer 2: I agree it would possibly be a useful feature of `ros2 launch` (not sure about `ros2 run`, but maybe...), but again I don't see what it has to do with multi-machine launch. We could add `attach`/`detach`/`term` without adding multi-machine launching actions, and vice versa (unless I miss some core reason for it being included here).

Terminates all nodes that were launched under a specific Launch System ID.

```bash
$ ros2 launcher term -h
usage: ros2 launcher term [-h] [-v] [--spin-time SPIN_TIME] [system_id]

Terminates all nodes that were launched under a specific Launch System ID

positional arguments:
  system_id          Launch System ID of the nodes to terminate; if less than
                     a full UUID is specified, it will terminate nodes
                     belonging to the first Launch System it finds whose ID
                     begins with that sub-string

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            Show this help message and exit.
  -v, --verbose         Provides more verbose output.
  --spin-time SPIN_TIME
                        Spin time in seconds to wait for discovery (only
                        applies when not using an already running daemon)
```

Example output:

```bash
$ ros2 launcher term 50bda6fb-d451-4d53-8a2b-e8fcdce8170b
Terminating Launch System 50bda6fb-d451-4d53-8a2b-e8fcdce8170b.
$

> ```

Reviewer: nit: newline

Reviewer 10: Note to resolve this comment: EOF newlines are present unless stated otherwise in github viewer
